    Title: Video v0.2 Beta
    Date: 2017-08-28T12:10:45
    Tags: release, by Leif Andersen

Today we are announcing the first stable beta for Video. To install it, you can first install [Racket][1], and then run:

```
raco pkg install video-testing
```

Alternatively, within DrRacket, go to `File -> Install Package`, and type in `video-testing`.

Either way, make sure you installed `video-testing`, the `video` package points to the latest stable build of Video, which is v0.1.1 at the time of this release.

The documentation for this version can be viewed [on the Racket documentation website][2]. Unlike with the Alpha builds, the documentation has been updated to reflect the new version. As such:

**Video v0.2-beta is now mature enough for programmers to reliably use it without segfaults.**

The above sentence is significant because it means Video is now one of the most stable open source video production tools available.

<!-- more -->

You can also download the source code for the build directly on [Video's github project page][3].

We would also like to thank David Christiansen and Benjamin Chung for their extensive use and testing of Video.

A detailed list of changes can be found in the source code's `LOG` file, and are listed here:

* Documentation Improvements to match the v0.2 API.
* Create stable/testing/unstable(master) branches.
* Fix deadlocks with the player, also solves sever segfaults
* Increased stability of Video (it no longer seems to segfault).
* Add infrastructure to lift ffmpeg logs into Racket logs (require libvid), disabled for this release.
* Audio works in live preview
* Introduced concept of `merge` for multitrack, replaces transition
* Transitions now only appear in playlists.
* Add CI testing for windows builds
* Add initial opengl bindings for windows. (The Racket ones don't)
* Add legacy opengl support (for opengl v2.1+)
* Remove now deprecated MLT bindings.
* Fix many bugs related to multitracks and the way it processes transitions
* Fix concurrency bugs with live player.
* Reintroduce most of the unit tests from the v0.1 build.
* Add video/version to track the version more accurately than Racket's info.rkt system.
* Add video-log and ffmpeg-log to print out debug messages. ffmpeg-log not yet hooked up.
* Fix a few minor bugs preventing Video from running on Windows and Linux. We have now tested it on all three platforms.
* Initial work on live preview. The player has now been updated to show the video in the player window. Additionally Video can now seek video outputs (as well as inputs).

<script type="text/javascript">loadComments(23);</script>

[1]: https://racket-lang.org
[2]: http://docs.racket-lang.org/video@video-testing/index.html
[3]: https://github.com/videolang/video/releases/tag/v0.2-betas
